Transitive dependencies, without a doubt,
are the main reason people begin using Maven.
If we add a dependency, something like bibernate,
it will go ahead and pull down any and all transitive
dependencies that Hibernate needs.
Now if there are any conflicts,
it will also try and resolve those too by always choosing the newer version.
That doesn't always work,
and we'll talk more about how to exclude dependencies here in a minute,
but transitive dependencies are a great thing because,
as you can see from this example I posted up here,
If I put hibernate‑core, and I want to use hibernate‑core,
just that artifact, inside my application,
well, there's all these other JARs that Hibernate needs,
antler, dom4j, the hibernate‑commons annotations,core,
the jpa specifications, a bunch of logging APIs,
those will automatically be downloaded into my application.
Now transitive dependencies often scare or frighten people because they
don't know where all of these things are coming from.
When the people who created Hibernate, or whatever library you're using,
sat down and programmed it, they knew what libraries it needed to work with.
Who better then to decide what versions and what different libraries
it should pull in for your application then the people who are
creating the framework that you're using?
In this case,
Hibernate 5.4.1 specifically needs antler 2.7.7, dom4j 2.1.1,
they know the JPA specification it's supposed to work with. The
POM that you download from them actually defines those
dependencies that it's looking for,
and only in the case where there's a conflict will it try and override it with something newer.